This is an implementation of text-to-phoneme synthesis via a hundred lines of regexp substitutions.

Newer pieces:
* Scansion of any meter (master's work)
* Log-time word lemmatization scansion lookup, temp file cleanup (sqlite3 vs flat file)

All of the original pieces are written in AWK [sic] and are glued together with shell scripts in the synth.rb file with cryptic names.

Specifically:

1) amp.awk - add at-signs for line separators and # for word separators?
2) merging potential scansions (from sqlite!) of words
3) unamp.awk - opposite of amp.awk, just to make sure that merging is okay? (this is probably a kludge)
4) postamp.awk - taking out some debug information from merging scansions???
5) nudiv.awk - dividing lines into syllables (0 is short, 8 is long, 4 is anceps)
6) scansion.rb - takes a metrical specification of "l" (long), "r" (long that can resolve into two shorts), "s" (short), and "a" (anceps) and finds a possible match of the scansion to the syllables
    nb: this is written in Ruby 1.8 and uses weird old list manipulation methods that are probably part of the standard library by now
    the sqlite database is super tiny and is <5mb compressed, this might make sense as a simple dictionary as json file?
7) inc.awk - this deals with pitch accent information: high pitch is on a long penultimate syllable, on an antepenultimate syllable with a short ultimate, and on the first syllable of a two syllable word

This creates accentuated scanned intermediate format "text", which can get formatted into html entities (via htmfmt.awk) or into phonemes, as below.

8) d2m.awk - this converts a diphthong vowel into one vowel segment somehow???
9) spkfmt.awk - removes foot separators and other punctuation and turns punctuation into high pitch into super-high (like a breath, that inflates the lungs so the pitch rises)
10) spk.awk - formats phonemes into the output that mbrola is expecting
11) phostrip - strips out semicolons which mean something???
12) phobunch (phobunc) - takes out newlines which mbrola doesn't like
13) phofix - fixes nonexistent diphone pairs

This is the .pho file for mbrola.


This is a super complicated project because it is inscrutable AWK code that uses piles and piles of regular expression substitutions to do text-to-phoneme synthesis.

TODO phase 1:
[] take every sample text in sample-texts/ and convert it to .pho using synth.rb, in the style of how app.rb does it (try some samples first before doing every one)
   [] ensure that the meter of the 2*.txt files is 'lrlrlrlrlrla' (dactylic hexameter with anceps at the end), and the meter of the 1*.txt files is 'a'
[] translate the AWK / Ruby / Shell pipeline into clearly written Javascript, ensuring that every output matches the original exactly
   (divide the work into pre-scansion (1-5), scansion (6), accentuation (7), and phoneme production (8-13))
    [] document the format of the inputs and outputs for each stage, and write tests
